Namaste NodeJS
Episode 3. Creating our Express Server

1. node_modules
    1. Whenever we install any packages, it download the package code and store it in the node_modules

2. package.json
    1. package.js is a like index of the page
    2. Whenever we add new packages, it'll be included in the package.js,
        i. for example, when we install express js package, the code for express.js is downloaded and stored in the node_modules, and it's added as a dependency in the package.js
        "dependencies": {
            "express": "^5.1.0"
        }
    3. If express has dependencies, all the dependent packages are downloaded and stores in the node_module, the same principle is followed for the dependent packages
    4. Version of a package
        Express JS version, 
            "express": "^5.1.0"
        5.1.0
        5 -> major version
        1 -> minor version
        0 -> patch version
    5. ^ (carat) symbol
        The caret symbol (^) used in JavaScript package versioning (such as in the package.json file) means:
        You accept any minor and patch updates to the package version, but not major version updates.
        For example, if you specify "^5.0.2" as the version, npm can update to versions like 5.0.3, 5.1.0, etc., but not 6.0.0 or above.

        This is because major version changes typically include breaking changes, while minor and patch versions are supposed to be backward compatible under semantic versioning (SemVer).

        Why use caret (^)?
        * It keeps your dependencies up-to-date with new features and bug fixes within the same major version.
        * It prevents sudden breaking changes by locking the major version.
        * It is the default prefix npm uses when you don't specify one explicitly.
    6. ~ (tilde) symbol
        The tilde symbol (~) in JavaScript package versioning (like in a package.json file) signifies that you want to accept:
        Only patch-level updates within the specified minor version.

        In other words, it locks the major and minor version numbers, allowing updates only to the patch part.

        Example:
        * "~1.2.3" allows installing any version from 1.2.3 up to but not including 1.3.0.
        * This means it will accept updates like 1.2.4, 1.2.5, etc., which are usually bug fixes or small improvements, but will not update to 1.3.0 or beyond.

3.  package-lock.js
        1. package-lock.json will specify the exact version of the package that the app is using.
        2. In package.json. even if the version for express is ^5.1.0. It's not accurate as it'll auto update as the ^ is present, 
        3. That's where package-lock.json will be helpfull as it shows the current and exact version of the express the app is using